Tools for looking at cytometry data.

This directory contains the source code for a number of tools for
analysing cytometry data using R.

I created these, primarily because I found the standard GUI driven tools
to be difficult to use. These tools are quite rudimentary, but since they
allow the analysis of the data within the R environment it is very easy to
extend the types of analyses and visualisations that are possible.

There are four directories:

1. fcs3_reader. This contains the source code for a small C++ program that reads
   files in the fcs3 format. I don't know if it can read all types of .fcs files,
   as I designed it by reverse-engineering files from FACS-Aria (Beckton
   Dickinson) machines in our lab. That was many years ago (~2004 or so), and I have
   yet to have any trouble with it.
   The executable reads in the binary format file and outputs a text representation
   that can easily be used in R or other scripting environments.

2. scripts. This contains a single perl script (fcs2text.pl) that reads the typical xml 
   file describing an experiment (series of analyses) performed on a FACS aria machine. 
   It then calls the read_fcs program (see above) and spits out appropriately named text files.

3. R. This contains a file of R functions (functions.R). These provide various ways of
   specifying gates and visualising data. These functions are all fairly simple, with the
   exception of a function that allows the user to specify arbitrarily shaped gates (well,
   almost arbitrary; the gates must be convex, though several convex gates can be used to
   create concavities).

4. example_date. This contains a directory of data, including the .fcs and the .xml files as
   well as the text representations derived from these. There is also an .R file containing
   hopefully working code demonstrating the use of the R functions.

Don't hesitate to contact me if you're interested in any of the above. I suspect that the components
may require a little playing around with to get working on an arbitrary system. (At least making
some changes to the PATH or moving binaries around).

Martin Jakt
lmjakt@gmail.com

